## Tennis Game Score App

A simple tennis game score calculator built with Python and Streamlit.

### How to Run This Codebase:

#### Clone the Repository in the directory of your choice using:

git clone https://github.com/your-username/Tennis_Game_Score.git  

(Don't forget to move into the base directory: cd Tennis_Game_Score)


#### Install Dependencies (assuming you already have python installed) using:
pip install -r requirements.txt  

Or  

pip install pytest streamlit  


#### Step 3: Run the Streamlit App
From the base directory run: python start_app.py  

The app should open automatically in your browser at: http://localhost:8501  




__________________________________________________________________________________

## The process


I have documented the process of building this app so you have a better understanding of my approach:


#### Hour 1: 

- I don't know tennis very well so I started with some priliminary research on Tennis Game scoring, checked the wikipedia page, and watched some videos about it. 
- Took a quick look at Python programming good practices
- Pondered over the case, the logic for the scoring, looked for similar problems on the internet.

Resources that helped me in this section : Wikipedia, Youtube, PEP8, Multiple blog posts by kind people on the internet.


#### Hour 2 to 2.5: 

- Drafted a class model. (My initial thought was indeed to use a procedural approach, but doing the preliminary research about good code practices reminded me of the importance of OOPS and modularity for a maintainable and scalable code base)

- Layed out the project structure with necessary files.
- Wrote skeleton code for the classes without the logic for the score calculation. 


#### Hour 2.5 to 3.5:

- Worked on the score calculation logic. For this, I brainstormed with Chatgpt, only to realise it was missing an important case, so I revised the logic to handle edge cases correctly. But Chatgpt did save a few trial and errors for me.

##### Note: I do think LLM’s empower coders significantly. But, I am also always concerned about not learning the fundamentals, making us essentially bad and ignorant coders, so my style of using LLMs for help always involves understanding all the lines of code generated by it and mostly only using it to optimize the code or getting a start on a logic. 


#### Hour 3.5 to 4
- Having lost some touch with writing unit tests and logging as I have been only building quick POCs in the past, I used this opportunity to brush up these concepts with the Pytest and Logging modules. 

##### Note: The 'test_game.py' file under the 'tennis' directory is the working test file. I had trouble running the file from the 'tests' directory due to 'ModuleNotFoundError' which was I could not debug in time. 


#### Hour 4 to 4.25
- This was purely an extra step. It did not require significantly more effort. I am very keen on ensuring I provide the best experience I can with my solutions.
- Hence, I quickly made an interface that you can use to test the program better. I used the Streamlit Python library, which is my recent find. Very useful for quick prototyping. 


##### Note: The document mention input through a few ways "external input source (user input, file, etc.)". It was not clear if I could pick one or the code must allow for multiple types of input streams. My initial plan was to add a few more options for input type like files, json, etc., but didnot have enough time as it would have taken me considerably more time. 





I hope you enjoying playing with the app and going through my code. Looking forward to your review!



Thanks!